---
title: "Auditory Performance in Older Adults is Related to Glutamate/Glutamine Concentration in Auditory Cortex."
collection: talks
type: "Conference"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "Cognition Neuroscience Society"
date: 2024-04-10
location: "Toronto, Canada"
---

Age-related hearing loss is characterized by reduced speech intelligibility in complex acoustic environments. Previous studies have reported that individual differences in levels of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid **(GABA)** in the auditory cortex are associated with individual differences in auditory function. However, the impact of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, as well as the ratio of **glutamate** to GABA (E/I balance), on auditory function is still unclear. In the present work, we analyzed MEGA-PRESS magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) data collected as part of the Michigan Neural Distinctiveness (MiND) Study to estimate GABA and **Glutamate/Glutamine (Glx)** concentration in both the left and right auditory cortices of 60 young and 144 older adults. GABA and Glx were estimated in the MEGA-PRESS difference spectrum using the Gannet toolbox in MATLAB, correcting for tissue composition. 

Additionally, auditory performance was measured during Speech-in-Noise, Words-in-Noise, Digits-in-Noise, and Pure-Tone Threshold tasks. Linear regression analysis was applied to examine the association between GABA/Glx levels and auditory performance. We replicated previous findings that lower GABA in the right auditory cortex was associated with worse speech-in-noise performance in older adults. Further, we found that lower **Glx** levels in the right auditory cortex were also associated with poorer performance in **all three** hearing in noise measures in the older cohort, while EI balance was not correlated with auditory performance.
---
