---
title: "Why is GABA related to neural distinctiveness? A computational account of age-related neural dedifferentiation."
collection: talks
type: "Conference"
permalink: /talks/2014-08-12-talk-3
venue: "Cognitive Computational Neuroscience"
date: 2025-08-12
location: "Amsterdam, The Netherlands"
---

Neural activation patterns in response to different stimuli (e.g., houses vs. faces) are less distinctive (more similar and confusable) in older adults vs. younger adults, a phenomenon known as age-related neural dedifferentiation. A growing body of evidence suggests that the brain’s major inhibitory neurotransmitter (GABA) might play a role: GABA levels decline with age throughout the brain and individual differences in GABA are significantly associated with individual differences in neural distinctiveness. But why would reduced GABA levels lead to reduced neural distinctiveness? We explore that question in the context of a computational model of age-related changes in koniocortex. We took an existing and independently developed model of koniocortex and used it to try to simulate the relationship between GABA levels and neural distinctiveness that we had observed in our own MR spectroscopy and fMRI studies of older adults. Specifically, we strengthened and/or weakened the model’s shunting inhibition mechanism to capture individual differences in GABA levels estimated using MR spectroscopy. We then estimated neural distinctiveness in the output layer of the model by computing the average cosine similarity among activation patterns. We found that individual differences in cosine similarity significantly predicted individual differences in neural distinctiveness as estimated using fMRI. Furthermore, cosine similarity significantly mediated the relationship between GABA levels and neural distinctiveness. These results provide a computationally explicit account of how age-related changes in GABA could lead to age-related neural dedifferentiation.